From Wikipedia:
Starship Troopers is a military science fiction novel by
American writer Robert A. Heinlein. Written in a few weeks in reaction to the
US suspending nuclear tests,[5] the story was first published as a two-part
serial in The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction as Starship Soldier, and
published as a book by G. P. Putnam's Sons in December 1959.

The story is set in a future society ruled by a human interstellar government
dominated by a military elite called the Terran Federation. Under this system,
only veterans of the military enjoy full citizenship, including the right to
vote.[6] The first-person narrative follows Juan "Johnny" Rico, a young man of
Filipino descent, through his military service in the Mobile Infantry. He
progresses from recruit to officer against the backdrop of an interstellar war
between humans and an alien species known as "Arachnids" or "Bugs".
Interspersed with the primary plot are classroom scenes in which Rico and
others discuss philosophical and moral issues, including aspects of suffrage,
civic virtue, juvenile delinquency, and war; these discussions have been
described as expounding Heinlein's own political views.[7] Starship Troopers
has been identified with a tradition of militarism in US science fiction,[8]
and draws parallels between the conflict between humans and the Bugs, and the
Cold War.[9] A coming-of-age novel, Starship Troopers also criticizes the US
society of the 1950s, arguing that a lack of discipline had led to a moral
decline, and advocates corporal and capital punishment.[7][10]

Starship Troopers brought to an end Heinlein's series of juvenile novels. It
became one of his best-selling books, and is considered his most widely known
work.[11] It won the Hugo Award for Best Novel in 1960,[3] and was praised by
reviewers for its scenes of training and combat and its visualization of a
future military.[12][13] It also became enormously controversial because of the
political views it seemed to support. Reviewers were strongly critical of the
book's intentional glorification of the military,[14][15] an aspect described
as propaganda and likened to recruitment.[16] The novel's militarism, and the
fact that government service – most often military service – was a prerequisite
to the right to vote in the novel's fictional society, led to it being
frequently described as fascist.[15][17][18] Others disagree, arguing that
Heinlein was only exploring the idea of limiting the right to vote to a certain
group of people.[19] Heinlein's depiction of gender has also been questioned,
while reviewers have said that the terms used to describe the aliens were akin
to racial epithets.[20]

Despite the controversy, Starship Troopers had wide influence both within and
outside science fiction. Ken MacLeod stated that "the political strand in
[science fiction] can be described as a dialogue with Heinlein".[2] Science
fiction critic Darko Suvin wrote that Starship Troopers is the "ancestral text
of US science fiction militarism" and that it shaped the debate about the role
of the military in society for many years.[21] The novel has been credited with
popularizing the idea of powered armor, which has since become a recurring
feature in science fiction books and films, as well as an object of scientific
research.[22] Heinlein's depiction of a futuristic military was also
influential.[23] Later science fiction books, such as Joe Haldeman's 1974
anti-war novel The Forever War, have been described as reactions to Starship
Troopers.[24] The story has been adapted several times, including in a 1997
film version directed by Paul Verhoeven with screenplay by Edward Neumeier that
sought to satirize what the director saw as the fascist aspects of the
novel.[25]
